Let's review some of the details of building
a consumer with a Confluent Kafka Python library.
When we talk about consuming data from Kafka,
we typically refer to a Poll Loop,
which is responsible for requesting
new data from the underlying client libraries consumer q.
Let's walk through an example of what a Poll Loop looks like,
which you can see on the screen here.
In this first example,
we're going to write a while loop that loops indefinitely.
So you can see we have while True that's going to
loop until either we control C to exit the application,
it crashes or some other outside for stops this.
Within this while loop, we're simply going to call poll.
When we call poll, we've passed in the one second timeout.
Essentially, if no message has been received in one second,
the loop will continue and poll again.
If we do in fact receive a message from Kafka,
we needed to do some error checking first.
Is the message None?
This would happen if we did a poll for one second and receive no message.
If that happens, we just want to continue back to the top of the loop.
We also want to check to see if there is an error.
If the message cannot be processed or there's some other kind of error,
we don't want to do anything with it.
Ideally, in a production application,
we would log that we received in error and then continue back to the top of the loop.
If a message contains data,
we can extract the key in value from the message by calling either of those methods.
So you can see here we're printing message.key and message.value.
It is possible to swap out the pull method for a consumed method.
The consume method allows us to consume
more than one message at a time which can be advantageous.
Well, both methods are good,
the pull method is actually more feature-rich and then Kafka Confluent Python library.
We'll talk more about Avro and a future lesson but
the poll method provides some useful functionality in this area.
Finally, it's important that once you do decide
to exit a consumer that you do it gracefully.
Finish consuming any messages that the consumer has polled and then close the library,
this allows your client to flush its offset and process any remaining messages.
Skipping this step can lead your client finding itself in an inconsistent state.
It's also worth mentioning that failure to close means that
the Kafka broker has to determine on its
own that your consumer has left the consumer group.
Determining this takes time and failed messages,
this can cost performance problems for the rest of
the consumer group and cause a laid rebalances.
In this example, you can see we've used the consume method.
So consume unlike poll,
can grab a certain number of messages at a time.
Here, I specified that I'd like to fetch five messages at a time,
if there are five messages available.
Just like the poll method,
we have a timeout of one second.
You'll get back an array of messages or a list of messages.
So we'll iterate over the messages that we did receive.
Again, we still want to just check to make sure the message isn't None.
This case shouldn't occur,
we should get an empty list but it doesn't hurt to check this scenario.
We also want to check to make sure the message doesn't have an error,
and just as in the previous example if neither of those conditions are true,
we can extract the message key and value.
What's nice about this is it allows us to process multiple messages at
once as opposed to poll we're only going to get one message at a time.